docs/features/api-configuration-profiles.md, before:

# API Configuration Profiles

API Configuration Profiles allow you to create and switch between different sets of AI settings. Each profile can have different configurations for each mode, letting you optimize your experience based on the task at hand.

:::info
Having multiple configuration profiles lets you quickly switch between different AI providers, models, and settings without reconfiguring everything each time you want to change your setup.
:::
## How It Works

Configuration profiles can have their own:
- API providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter, Glama, etc.)
- API keys and authentication details
- Model selections (o3-mini-high, Claude 3.7 Sonnet, DeepSeek R1, etc.)
- [Temperature settings](/features/model-temperature) for controlling response randomness
- Thinking budgets
- Provider-specific settings

Note that available settings vary by provider and model. Each provider offers different configuration options, and even within the same provider, different models may support different parameter ranges or features.

## Creating and Managing Profiles

### Creating a Profile

1. Open Settings by clicking the gear icon <Codicon name="gear" /> → Providers
2. Click the "+" button next to the profile selector

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-1.png" alt="Profile selector with plus button" width="550" />
3. Enter a name for your new profile
   
   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles.png" alt="Creating a new profile dialog" width="550" />
4. Configure the profile settings:
   - Select your API provider
      
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-2.png" alt="Provider selection dropdown" width="550" />
   - Enter API key
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-3.png" alt="API key entry field" width="550" />
   - Choose a model
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-8.png" alt="Model selection interface" width="550" />
   - Adjust model parameters
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-5.png" alt="Model parameter adjustment controls" width="550" />

### Switching Profiles

Switch profiles in two ways:
1. From Settings panel: Select a different profile from the dropdown

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-7.png" alt="Profile selection dropdown in Settings" width="550" />
2. During chat: Access the API Configuration dropdown in the chat interface

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-9.png" alt="API Configuration dropdown in chat interface" width="550" />

### Editing and Deleting Profiles

<img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-10.png" alt="Profile editing interface" width="550" />
- Select the profile in Settings to modify any settings
- Click the pencil icon to rename a profile
- Click the trash icon to delete a profile (you cannot delete the only remaining profile)

## Linking Profiles to Modes
In the <Codicon name="notebook" /> Prompts tab, you can explicitly associate a specific Configuration Profile with each Mode. The system also automatically remembers which profile you last used with each mode, making your workflow more efficient.
<img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-11.png" alt="Profile-Mode association interface in Prompts tab" width="550" />

## Security Note

API keys are stored securely in VSCode's Secret Storage and are never exposed in plain text.

## Related Features

- Works with [custom modes](/features/custom-modes) you create
- Integrates with [local models](/advanced-usage/local-models) for offline work
- Supports [temperature settings](/features/model-temperature) per mode
- Enhances cost management with [rate limits and usage tracking](/advanced-usage/rate-limits-costs)

Commit message:

3.11 (#108)
* Add Fast Edits feature images and update documentation, also tweaked apply-diff tool description

* Update MCP documentation to clarify server configuration and precedence; add new images for better guidance

* Update documentation rules to require absolute paths for internal links and remove .md extensions

* Add documentation for Import, Export, and Reset Settings features

* Add settings management image to documentation

* Add pinning and sorting functionality to API configuration profiles documentation and images

* Add documentation for Suggested Responses feature with images

* Enhance documentation for Code Actions feature with detailed explanation of "Add to Context" functionality and usage examples

* Add release notes for versions 2.1.20, 2.1.7, 2.2.34, 2.2.40, 2.2.2, 2.2.32, 2.2.25, 2.2.6, 2.2.1, 2.2.43, 2.2.24, 3.0.2, 3.1.4, 3.1.1, and 3.2.6; include new images for version 3.11

* Fix link formatting in apply-diff documentation for improved navigation

* Update docs/features/fast-edits.md

docs/features/api-configuration-profiles.md, after:

# API Configuration Profiles

API Configuration Profiles allow you to create and switch between different sets of AI settings. Each profile can have different configurations for each mode, letting you optimize your experience based on the task at hand.

:::info
Having multiple configuration profiles lets you quickly switch between different AI providers, models, and settings without reconfiguring everything each time you want to change your setup.
:::
## How It Works

Configuration profiles can have their own:
- API providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, OpenRouter, Glama, etc.)
- API keys and authentication details
- Model selections (o3-mini-high, Claude 3.7 Sonnet, DeepSeek R1, etc.)
- [Temperature settings](/features/model-temperature) for controlling response randomness
- Thinking budgets
- Provider-specific settings

Note that available settings vary by provider and model. Each provider offers different configuration options, and even within the same provider, different models may support different parameter ranges or features.

## Creating and Managing Profiles

### Creating a Profile

1. Open Settings by clicking the gear icon <Codicon name="gear" /> → Providers
2. Click the "+" button next to the profile selector

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-1.png" alt="Profile selector with plus button" width="550" />
3. Enter a name for your new profile
   
   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles.png" alt="Creating a new profile dialog" width="550" />
4. Configure the profile settings:
   - Select your API provider
      
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-2.png" alt="Provider selection dropdown" width="550" />
   - Enter API key
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-3.png" alt="API key entry field" width="550" />
   - Choose a model
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-8.png" alt="Model selection interface" width="550" />
   - Adjust model parameters
   
      <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-5.png" alt="Model parameter adjustment controls" width="550" />

### Switching Profiles

Switch profiles in two ways:
1. From Settings panel: Select a different profile from the dropdown

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-7.png" alt="Profile selection dropdown in Settings" width="550" />
2. During chat: Access the API Configuration dropdown in the chat interface

   <img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-6.png" alt="API Configuration dropdown in chat interface" width="550" />
### Pinning and Sorting Profiles

The API configuration dropdown now supports pinning your favorite profiles for quicker access:

1. Hover over any profile in the dropdown to reveal the pin icon
2. Click the pin icon to add the profile to your pinned list
3. Pinned profiles appear at the top of the dropdown, sorted alphabetically
4. Unpinned profiles appear below a separator, also sorted alphabetically
5. You can unpin a profile by clicking the same icon again

<img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-4.png" alt="Pinning API configuration profiles" width="550" />

This feature makes it easier to navigate between commonly used profiles, especially when you have many configurations.


### Editing and Deleting Profiles

<img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-10.png" alt="Profile editing interface" width="550" />
- Select the profile in Settings to modify any settings
- Click the pencil icon to rename a profile
- Click the trash icon to delete a profile (you cannot delete the only remaining profile)

## Linking Profiles to Modes
In the <Codicon name="notebook" /> Prompts tab, you can explicitly associate a specific Configuration Profile with each Mode. The system also automatically remembers which profile you last used with each mode, making your workflow more efficient.
<img src="/img/api-configuration-profiles/api-configuration-profiles-11.png" alt="Profile-Mode association interface in Prompts tab" width="550" />

## Security Note

API keys are stored securely in VSCode's Secret Storage and are never exposed in plain text.

## Related Features

- Works with [custom modes](/features/custom-modes) you create
- Integrates with [local models](/advanced-usage/local-models) for offline work
- Supports [temperature settings](/features/model-temperature) per mode
- Enhances cost management with [rate limits and usage tracking](/advanced-usage/rate-limits-costs)
