docs/advanced-usage/local-models.md, before:

# Using Local Models

Roo Code supports running language models locally on your own machine using [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/).  This offers several advantages:

*   **Privacy:** Your code and data never leave your computer.
*   **Offline Access:**  You can use Roo Code even without an internet connection.
*   **Cost Savings:**  Avoid API usage fees associated with cloud-based models.
*   **Customization:**  Experiment with different models and configurations.

**However, using local models also has some drawbacks:**

*   **Resource Requirements:**  Local models can be resource-intensive, requiring a powerful computer with a good CPU and, ideally, a dedicated GPU.
*   **Setup Complexity:**  Setting up local models can be more complex than using cloud-based APIs.
*   **Model Performance:**  The performance of local models can vary significantly. While some are excellent, they may not always match the capabilities of the largest, most advanced cloud models.
* **Limited Features**: Local models (and many online models) often do not support advanced features such as prompt caching, computer use, and others.

## Supported Local Model Providers

Roo Code currently supports two main local model providers:

1.  **Ollama:**  A popular open-source tool for running large language models locally.  It supports a wide range of models.
2.  **LM Studio:**  A user-friendly desktop application that simplifies the process of downloading, configuring, and running local models.  It also provides a local server that emulates the OpenAI API.

## Setting Up Ollama

1.  **Download and Install Ollama:**  Download the Ollama installer for your operating system from the [Ollama website](https://ollama.com/). Follow the installation instructions. Make sure Ollama is running

    ```bash
    ollama serve
    ```

2.  **Download a Model:**  Ollama supports many different models.  You can find a list of available models on the [Ollama website](https://ollama.com/library).  Some recommended models for coding tasks include:

    *   `codellama:7b-code` (good starting point, smaller)
    *   `codellama:13b-code` (better quality, larger)
    *   `codellama:34b-code` (even better quality, very large)
    *   `qwen2.5-coder:32b`
    *   `mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1` (good general-purpose model)
    *   `deepseek-coder:6.7b-base` (good for coding tasks)
    * `llama3:8b-instruct-q5_1` (good for general tasks)

    To download a model, open your terminal and run:

    ```bash
    ollama pull <model_name>
    ```

    For example:

    ```bash
    ollama pull qwen2.5-coder:32b
    ```

3. **Configure the Model:** by default, Ollama uses a context window size of 2048 tokens, which is too small for Roo Code requests. You need to have at least 12k to get decent results, ideally - 32k. To configure a model, you actually need to set its parameters and save a copy of it.

   Load the model (we will use `qwen2.5-coder:32b` as an example):
   
    ```bash
    ollama run qwen2.5-coder:32b
    ```

   Change context size parameter:

    ```bash
    /set parameter num_ctx 32768
    ```

    Save the model with a new name:

    ```bash
    /save your_model_name
    ```
      

4.  **Configure Roo Code:**
    *   Open the Roo Code sidebar (<Codicon name="rocket" /> icon).
    *   Click the settings gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />).
    *   Select "ollama" as the API Provider.
    *   Enter the Model name from the previous step (e.g., `your_model_name`).
    *   (Optional) You can configure the base URL if you're running Ollama on a different machine. The default is `http://localhost:11434`.
    *   (Optional) Configure Model context size in Advanced settings, so Roo Code knows how to manage its sliding window.

## Setting Up LM Studio

1.  **Download and Install LM Studio:** Download LM Studio from the [LM Studio website](https://lmstudio.ai/).
2.  **Download a Model:** Use the LM Studio interface to search for and download a model.  Some recommended models include those listed above for Ollama. Look for models in the GGUF format.
3.  **Start the Local Server:**
    *   In LM Studio, click the **"Local Server"** tab (the icon looks like `<->`).
    *   Select your downloaded model.
    *   Click **"Start Server"**.
4.  **Configure Roo Code:**
    *   Open the Roo Code sidebar (<Codicon name="rocket" /> icon).
    *   Click the settings gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />).
    *   Select "lmstudio" as the API Provider.
    *   Enter the Model ID.  This should be the name of the model file you loaded in LM Studio (e.g., `codellama-7b.Q4_0.gguf`).  LM Studio shows a list of "Currently loaded models" in its UI.
    *   (Optional) You can configure the base URL if you're running LM Studio on a different machine. The default is `http://localhost:1234`.

## Troubleshooting

*   **"Please check the LM Studio developer logs to debug what went wrong":** This error usually indicates a problem with the model or its configuration in LM Studio.  Try the following:
    *   Make sure the LM Studio local server is running and that the correct model is loaded.
    *   Check the LM Studio logs for any error messages.
    *   Try restarting the LM Studio server.
    *   Ensure your chosen model is compatible with Roo Code.  Some very small models may not work well.
    *  Some models may require a larger context length.

*   **"No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it":**  This usually means that the Ollama or LM Studio server isn't running, or is running on a different port/address than Roo Code is configured to use.  Double-check the Base URL setting.

*   **Slow Response Times:** Local models can be slower than cloud-based models, especially on less powerful hardware.  If performance is an issue, try using a smaller model.

*   **Model Not Found:** Ensure you have typed in the name of the model correctly. If you're using Ollama, use the same name that you provide in the `ollama run` command.

Commit message:

Added alternative ollama command line create (#50)
Created runtime vs command line options for creating the ollama model following the existing example.

Signed-off-by: Rob Sherman <rsherman@velocityinteractive.com>

docs/advanced-usage/local-models.md, after:

# Using Local Models

Roo Code supports running language models locally on your own machine using [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/).  This offers several advantages:

*   **Privacy:** Your code and data never leave your computer.
*   **Offline Access:**  You can use Roo Code even without an internet connection.
*   **Cost Savings:**  Avoid API usage fees associated with cloud-based models.
*   **Customization:**  Experiment with different models and configurations.

**However, using local models also has some drawbacks:**

*   **Resource Requirements:**  Local models can be resource-intensive, requiring a powerful computer with a good CPU and, ideally, a dedicated GPU.
*   **Setup Complexity:**  Setting up local models can be more complex than using cloud-based APIs.
*   **Model Performance:**  The performance of local models can vary significantly. While some are excellent, they may not always match the capabilities of the largest, most advanced cloud models.
* **Limited Features**: Local models (and many online models) often do not support advanced features such as prompt caching, computer use, and others.

## Supported Local Model Providers

Roo Code currently supports two main local model providers:

1.  **Ollama:**  A popular open-source tool for running large language models locally.  It supports a wide range of models.
2.  **LM Studio:**  A user-friendly desktop application that simplifies the process of downloading, configuring, and running local models.  It also provides a local server that emulates the OpenAI API.

## Setting Up Ollama

1.  **Download and Install Ollama:**  Download the Ollama installer for your operating system from the [Ollama website](https://ollama.com/). Follow the installation instructions. Make sure Ollama is running

    ```bash
    ollama serve
    ```

2.  **Download a Model:**  Ollama supports many different models.  You can find a list of available models on the [Ollama website](https://ollama.com/library).  Some recommended models for coding tasks include:

    *   `codellama:7b-code` (good starting point, smaller)
    *   `codellama:13b-code` (better quality, larger)
    *   `codellama:34b-code` (even better quality, very large)
    *   `qwen2.5-coder:32b`
    *   `mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1` (good general-purpose model)
    *   `deepseek-coder:6.7b-base` (good for coding tasks)
    * `llama3:8b-instruct-q5_1` (good for general tasks)

    To download a model, open your terminal and run:

    ```bash
    ollama pull <model_name>
    ```

    For example:

    ```bash
    ollama pull qwen2.5-coder:32b
    ```

3. **Configure the Model:** by default, Ollama uses a context window size of 2048 tokens, which is too small for Roo Code requests. You need to have at least 12k to get decent results, ideally - 32k. To configure a model, you actually need to set its parameters and save a copy of it.

    ##### Using Ollama runtime
   Load the model (we will use `qwen2.5-coder:32b` as an example):
   
    ```bash
    ollama run qwen2.5-coder:32b
    ```

   Change context size parameter:

    ```bash
    /set parameter num_ctx 32768
    ```

    Save the model with a new name:

    ```bash
    /save your_model_name
    ```
    ##### Using Ollama command line
    Alternatively, you can write all your settings into a text file and generate the model in the command-line.


    Create a text file with model settings, and save it (~/qwen2.5-coder-32k.txt).  Here we've only used the `num_ctx` parameter, but you could include more parameters on the next line using the `PARAMETER name value` syntax.

    ```text
    FROM qwen2.5-coder:32b
    # sets the context window size to 32768, this controls how many tokens the LLM can use as context to generate the next token
    PARAMETER num_ctx 32768
    ```
    Change directory to the `.ollama/models` directory.  On most Macs, thats `~/.ollama/models` by default (`%HOMEPATH%\.ollama` on Windows).

    ```bash
    cd ~/.ollama/models
    ```

    Create your model from the settings text file you created.  The syntax is `ollama create (name of the model you want to see) -f (text file with settings)`

    ```bash
    ollama create qwen2.5-coder-32k -f ~/qwen2.5-coder-32k.txt
    ```



4.  **Configure Roo Code:**
    *   Open the Roo Code sidebar (<Codicon name="rocket" /> icon).
    *   Click the settings gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />).
    *   Select "ollama" as the API Provider.
    *   Enter the Model name from the previous step (e.g., `your_model_name`) or choose it from the radio button list that should appear below `Model ID` if Ollama is currently running.
    *   (Optional) You can configure the base URL if you're running Ollama on a different machine. The default is `http://localhost:11434`.
    *   (Optional) Configure Model context size in Advanced settings, so Roo Code knows how to manage its sliding window.

## Setting Up LM Studio

1.  **Download and Install LM Studio:** Download LM Studio from the [LM Studio website](https://lmstudio.ai/).
2.  **Download a Model:** Use the LM Studio interface to search for and download a model.  Some recommended models include those listed above for Ollama. Look for models in the GGUF format.
3.  **Start the Local Server:**
    *   In LM Studio, click the **"Local Server"** tab (the icon looks like `<->`).
    *   Select your downloaded model.
    *   Click **"Start Server"**.
4.  **Configure Roo Code:**
    *   Open the Roo Code sidebar (<Codicon name="rocket" /> icon).
    *   Click the settings gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />).
    *   Select "lmstudio" as the API Provider.
    *   Enter the Model ID.  This should be the name of the model file you loaded in LM Studio (e.g., `codellama-7b.Q4_0.gguf`).  LM Studio shows a list of "Currently loaded models" in its UI.
    *   (Optional) You can configure the base URL if you're running LM Studio on a different machine. The default is `http://localhost:1234`.

## Troubleshooting

*   **"Please check the LM Studio developer logs to debug what went wrong":** This error usually indicates a problem with the model or its configuration in LM Studio.  Try the following:
    *   Make sure the LM Studio local server is running and that the correct model is loaded.
    *   Check the LM Studio logs for any error messages.
    *   Try restarting the LM Studio server.
    *   Ensure your chosen model is compatible with Roo Code.  Some very small models may not work well.
    *  Some models may require a larger context length.

*   **"No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it":**  This usually means that the Ollama or LM Studio server isn't running, or is running on a different port/address than Roo Code is configured to use.  Double-check the Base URL setting.

*   **Slow Response Times:** Local models can be slower than cloud-based models, especially on less powerful hardware.  If performance is an issue, try using a smaller model.

*   **Model Not Found:** Ensure you have typed in the name of the model correctly. If you're using Ollama, use the same name that you provide in the `ollama run` command.
