extensions/vscode/README.md, before:

<div align="center">

![Continue logo](media/readme.png)

</div>

<h1 align="center">Continue</h1>

<div align="center">

**[Continue](https://docs.continue.dev) enables to developers create, share, and use custom AI code assistants with our open-source [VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Continue.continue) extension and [hub of models, rules, prompts, docs, and other building blocks](https://hub.continue.dev)**

</div>

<div align="center">

<a target="_blank" href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://docs.continue.dev" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/continue_docs-%23BE1B55" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://discord.gg/vapESyrFmJ" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-continue.svg?labelColor=191937&color=6F6FF7&logo=discord" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>

<p></p>

## Chat

[Chat](https://continue.dev/docs/chat/how-to-use-it) makes it easy to ask for help from an LLM without needing to leave the IDE

![chat](docs/static/img/chat.gif)

## Autocomplete

[Autocomplete](https://continue.dev/docs/autocomplete/how-to-use-it) provides inline code suggestions as you type

![autocomplete](docs/static/img/autocomplete.gif)

## Edit

[Edit](https://continue.dev/docs/edit/how-to-use-it) is a convenient way to modify code without leaving your current file

![edit](docs/static/img/edit.gif)

## Actions

[Actions](https://continue.dev/docs/actions/how-to-use-it) are shortcuts for common use cases.

![actions](docs/static/img/actions.gif)

</div>

## License

[Apache 2.0 © 2023-2024 Continue Dev, Inc.](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

actions --> agent in vs code readme
continuedev commit: 6e11b246bc0d9f1b8f36c68fa60e635cf8c7b964

extensions/vscode/README.md, after:

<div align="center">

![Continue logo](media/readme.png)

</div>

<h1 align="center">Continue</h1>

<div align="center">

**[Continue](https://docs.continue.dev) enables to developers create, share, and use custom AI code assistants with our open-source [VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Continue.continue) extension and [hub of models, rules, prompts, docs, and other building blocks](https://hub.continue.dev)**

</div>

<div align="center">

<a target="_blank" href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://docs.continue.dev" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/continue_docs-%23BE1B55" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://discord.gg/vapESyrFmJ" style="background:none">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-continue.svg?labelColor=191937&color=6F6FF7&logo=discord" style="height: 22px;" />
</a>

<p></p>

## Chat

[Chat](https://continue.dev/docs/chat/how-to-use-it) makes it easy to ask for help from an LLM without needing to leave the IDE

![chat](docs/static/img/chat.gif)

## Autocomplete

[Autocomplete](https://continue.dev/docs/autocomplete/how-to-use-it) provides inline code suggestions as you type

![autocomplete](docs/static/img/autocomplete.gif)

## Edit

[Edit](https://continue.dev/docs/edit/how-to-use-it) is a convenient way to modify code without leaving your current file

![edit](docs/static/img/edit.gif)

## Agent

[Agent](https://continue.dev/docs/agent/how-to-use-it) enables you to make more substantial changes to your codebase

![agent](docs/static/img/agent.gif)

</div>

## License

[Apache 2.0 © 2023-2024 Continue Dev, Inc.](./LICENSE)
