docs/getting-started/setting-up.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Getting Set up
---

import { DISCORD_URL } from '@site/src/constants.ts'
import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';

export const FreeTierAmount = () => {
  const {siteConfig} = useDocusaurusContext();
  return siteConfig.customFields.freeTierAmount;
};

# Setting up Kilo Code

When you sign up for Kilo Code, you'll receive **<FreeTierAmount /> worth of tokens for free** to help you get started. To claim your free tokens:

1. Complete the registration process
2. You should recieve $5 or $20 in free tokens to use immediately 
3. To recieve the full <FreeTierAmount /> for free, you may need to enter your credit card (used for identity verification purposes)

## Registration process

Kilo Code provides a simple registration process that gives you access to the latest frontier coding models with your Kilo Code login.

1. Click on "Try Kilo Code for Free" in the extension
1. Sign in with your Google account to kilocode.ai
1. kilocode.ai will prompt you to open Visual Studio Code
1. Once you allow it to Open VS Code, you must also allow VS Code to open the authorization URL

<img src="/docs/img/setting-up/signupflow.gif" alt="Sign up and registration flow with Kilo Code"  />

That's it - you're all set! Now you can start with [your first task](/getting-started/your-first-task)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilocode.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::

Commit message:

Add information about temporary credit card hold during registration

docs/getting-started/setting-up.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Getting Set up
---

import { DISCORD_URL } from '@site/src/constants.ts'
import useDocusaurusContext from '@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext';

export const FreeTierAmount = () => {
  const {siteConfig} = useDocusaurusContext();
  return siteConfig.customFields.freeTierAmount;
};

# Setting up Kilo Code

When you sign up for Kilo Code, you'll receive **<FreeTierAmount /> worth of tokens for free** to help you get started. To claim your free tokens:

1. Complete the registration process
2. You should recieve $5 or $20 in free tokens to use immediately 
3. To recieve the full <FreeTierAmount /> for free, you need to enter your credit card (used for identity verification purposes)

:::note About the temporary hold
To protect our community and ensure service quality, we temporarily place a $10 hold on your credit card during registration. This hold typically lasts about a week and **will not be charged** to your account. We've implemented this measure to prevent abuse of our free tier while ensuring legitimate users have the best possible experience. We're actively working to remove this limitation in the future.
:::

## Registration process

Kilo Code provides a simple registration process that gives you access to the latest frontier coding models with your Kilo Code login.

1. Click on "Try Kilo Code for Free" in the extension
1. Sign in with your Google account to kilocode.ai
1. kilocode.ai will prompt you to open Visual Studio Code
1. Once you allow it to Open VS Code, you must also allow VS Code to open the authorization URL

<img src="/docs/img/setting-up/signupflow.gif" alt="Sign up and registration flow with Kilo Code"  />

That's it - you're all set! Now you can start with [your first task](/getting-started/your-first-task)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilocode.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::
